---
title: "Project no. 2 - Transformation of document file into DocBook format."
---
### Intro
This is a documentation to the second assignment in Web Publishing. I have performed a transformation of my Bachelor's Thesis from a docx document into a **DocBook** and then transformed it into a **pdf** file.
### Used elements and attributes
I will shortly now describe the used elements and attributes in my DocBook.
* The text is divided into chapters, sections and nesting sections in one another results in more sublevels of sections. After the main content, two appendixes, register and bibliography are generated.
* Some parts of the text are emphasized by bold width and italic style, for which I created my own bold-italic template in the **thesis.xsl** file. Also, an itemized bulleted list was used in section **2.1.2. (Ligy)**.
* I reference other parts of the DocBook inside of it, for example in parts **3.1.9. (Výhody a nevýhody)** I reference section **3.1.5. (Fitness) by Fitness funkcia**, in part **3.2.3. (Energia)** I reference part //3.2.4. (Pravdepodobnosť prijatia) by Pravdepodobnosť prijatia**.
* A footnote is added in sections 2.3.2. and 3.2.4..
* A bibliography is generated at the end of the DocBook and some of the books are referenced within the chapters of the DocBook, for example, in section **2.3.2. (Tím Austin Villa)** the third book (actually article) from the bibliography (Overlapped Layered Learning by MacAlpine and Stone, id=cit3) is cited. In the bibliography, urls to some of the books or articles are placed.
* I inserted two pictures of robots into the DocBook through **mediaobject** and a table in the second appendix. A list of them is generated by adding **figure,table** to **generate.toc** in **thesis.xsl**. The pictures are referenced also in the text, for example in section **2.1. (Robocup)** I reference the picture of the NAO robot by **Robot NAO**.
* A register of indexes is generated right before the first chapter. I used 3 layers of indexes, with **RoboCup** and **Artificial intelligence** as the primary index.
